Add content about installing project on IPv6 (#254)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_configuring-for-uefi-http-boot-ipv6-provisioning.adoc

[id="configuring-for-uefi-http-boot-provisioning-in-an-ipv6-network_{context}"]
= Configuring {Project} for UEFI HTTP Boot Provisioning in an IPv6 Network

Use this procedure to configure {Project} to provision hosts in an IPv6 network with UEFI HTTP Boot provisioning.

.Prerequisites

> * Ensure that your clients can access DHCP and TFTP servers.

Reviewer: Replace TFTP with HTTP. TFTP is not used at all in this scenario.

> * Ensure that the UDP ports 67 and 68 are accessible by the client so that the client can send and receive a DHCP request and offer.

Reviewer 2: To quote [RFC2131 section 4.1](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2131#section-4.1):

>   DHCP uses UDP as its transport protocol.  DHCP messages from a client
>   to a server are sent to the 'DHCP server' port (67), and DHCP
>   messages from a server to a client are sent to the 'DHCP client' port
>   (68).

That means UDP port 67 must be open on the DHCP server in the `INPUT` chain and UDP port 68 in the `OUTPUT` chain. The current phrasing suggests you should open port 68 on the server to incoming traffic.

```suggestion
* Ensure that the UDP ports 67 and 68 are accessible by clients so clients can send DHCP requests and receive DHCP offers.
```

> * Ensure that the TCP port 8000 is open for the client to download files and Kickstart templates from {SmartProxy}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the TCP port 8000 is open for clients to download files and Kickstart templates from {SmartProxy}.
```

> * Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a TFTP {SmartProxy}, and Templates {SmartProxy} set. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.7/html/provisioning_guide/configuring_networking#Configuring_Networking-Adding_a_Subnet_to_the_Satellite_Server[Adding a Subnet to {ProjectServer}] in the _Provisioning Guide_.

Reviewer: Replace TFTP with HTTP Boot.

.Procedure

> . Since clients that are booting from network cannot be identified by remote IPv6 address due to unmanaged DHCPv6 service, you must enable provisioning tokens. To enable provisioning tokens, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Provisioning* and set the *Token duration* setting to 0.

Reviewer 2: I thought that setting the token duration to 0 disables them rather than enable. Note that this makes it insecure.

Author: Is there a way to provision securely? If not, let' be fair and provide more info about what exactly is insecure.

Reviewer 2: Without provisioning tokens there is no authentication on provisioning templates, other than checking the IP address. These templates can include private data like passwords or other secrets. The attack would need to be able to spoof an IP on the target network so it's not trivial but it certainly lowers security.

Reviewer: Your concern about security is valid but what I am saying is that we actually want users to ensure tokens are in use. Therefore it's more secure. In the original text I require the opposite (unsecure). So there's is nothing to worry about.

> . Since clients that are booting from network cannot be identified by a remote IPv6 address due to unmanaged DHCPv6 service, you must disable provisioning tokens. To disable provisioning tokens, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Provisioning* and set the *Token duration* setting to 0.

Reviewer: This is a typo made by me - it is actually the very opposite. So ask readers to "ensure the token duration is set to some reasonable time duration and not zero".

Author: Oh that is good, @ekohl pointed out that disabling tokens is insecure.
Please elaborate why prov tokens must be enabled here. I do not see the direct correlation between the sentences "{SmartProxy} cannot identify clients that are booting from the network by a remote IPv6 address because of unmanaged DHCPv6 service" and "you must enable provisioning tokens". How are tokens related to Smart Proxy identifying clients?

Reviewer 2: > Oh that is good, @ekohl pointed out that disabling tokens is insecure.

Discussion @ https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/254#discussion_r482046568.

> This is a typo made by me - it is actually the very opposite. So ask readers to "ensure the token duration is set to some reasonable time duration and not zero".

Glad to hear that tokens should be used.

The default for `token_duration` is is 6 * 60 minutes, so 6 hours. It's probably good to recommend users who are unsure about the exact value to choose the default, right @lzap?

Reviewer: Yeah we actually do not require any action here to be honest. I wonder if we should delete this line from the procedure. We can perhaps move this to Requirements only in the form of "Ensure tokens are not disabled...".

I am just doublechecking, I wonder why I added it initially. For IPv6 DHCP is unmanaged, therefore system boots up, picks (random) IPv6, gets TFTP config which contains the token, yeah. This will work, no reason to disable them.

. You must disable DHCP management in the installer or not use it.

. For all IPv6 subnets created in {Project}, set the *DHCP {SmartProxy}* to blank.

. Optional: If the host and the DHCP server are separated by a router, configure the DHCP relay agent and point to the DHCP server.

. Update the `grub2-efi` package to the latest version:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {package-install-project} grub2-efi
----

> . Optional: If native IPv6 connectivity is not available, configure an HTTP proxy in {Project} and set it as the default proxy in settings. For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.8-beta/html/installing_satellite_server_from_a_connected_network/performing-additional-configuration#adding-a-default-http-proxy_satellite[Adding a Default HTTP Proxy to Satellite].

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to link to this content internally, without linking to the RH docs?

Author: This is being discussed in the issue #192. In this case, this module is likely to be reused, and if it is reused in another guide, xref won't work. Hence the link.

Reviewer: Let's continue the discussion there, we have many of these and this needs to be solved somehow.
